FINESSE Modeling Challenge
Engineering Social Data
Goal & Context
Over the last years, the birthplace of fashion shifted from catwalks and magazines to social
media. Consequently, social data constitutes the heart of FINESSE.
While somewhat cleaned up and pre-processed, this sample data set is supposed to expose
you to the messy and variable nature of social media and challenge your thinking around
feature engineering, data engineering and modeling.

The data set is a subset of Instagram posts during April 2020.

The goal with this data set is to establish infrastructure to identify trending fashion posts across
Instagram in this April 2020 subset. There is a lot one can do with the data set and it is easy to
get lost in either one of feature engineering, data engineering or modeling.

For this challenge, I would like you to focus on data infrastructure, schemas and scaled data engineering.
While I’d like to see you show off the way you code, I’m also interested in the way you think. To that end,
please also outline & rationalize any features or modeling that you would implement were this
not a timed challenge. This task should be treated as a hybrid of both a coding challenge as well
as a research / implementation proposal.

Deliverables
How much you code up vs write up is totally up to you to show the best of your skills. The time
requirement should be that of a regular, albeit challenging, coding take-home. The deliverables
should include:

● A solid sample of coding work in

● A written plan & reasoning (in any format that works best for you) for architecting a
successful data model (were there no time-constraints)

Data Structures
Attached to this challenge, you should find three different .CSV files.
● post_metrics_and_comments
This is your main file. It includes metrics for Instagram posts including the post url,
username, caption, image urls, max likes, max comments, max views (if video), followers
of the posting profile, followings of the posting profile, all comments (delimited by the
character “|”), and the date of posting.
● hashtag_top_appearances
This table includes the amount of days a post was trending across leading streetwear
community hashtags on Instagram. Trending, in this case, means appearing in the “top
posts” section of certain pre-filtered, trending streetwear hashtags. This table includes
the post_url and the associated days_in_hashtag_top_section metric.
● raw_post_metrics
This table includes main post metrics collected on certain posts across different times in
the four week period to monitor the posts’ growth (intervals between consecutive data
collection attempts vary). The table includes the post_url, the num_likes,
num_comments and num_views (if video) of the post on date_time_collected (the date &
time the data was collected on the specific post).
Notes
This exercise is intended mostly to give an idea of how you approach engineering a data system
from scratch and think about its scalability & success. I’m more interested in seeing your
process and structure as there is no one right answer. The documents should give us a great
foundation for our follow-up call at which point you can walk me through your reasoning and
deliverables step-by-step.
Most importantly, have fun and don’t hesitate to ask any questions!